Nobel Peace Prize is Henry Dunant's honour.
Ted Harbert is Stephen Dunham's better half.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Albert Einstein's honour.
International Atomic Energy Agency's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
São Tomé and Príncipe is Aimo Cajander's role.
Dom Mintoff's office is Spain.
Luxembourg is Kiichi Miyazawa's role.
Nobel Prize in Literature is David Baltimore's honour.
Stevie Wonder's birth place is New Haven, Connecticut.
Intec Telecom Systems' foundation place is Woking.
Hong Kong is Team and Concepts' innovation place.
Nobel Prize in Physics is Elias Canetti's honour.
Sinclair Lewis' award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Saginaw, Michigan is Stevie Wonder's nascence place.
Martina Navratilova's birth place is Prague.
Portsmouth is Charles Dickens' nascence place.
Tony Blair's birth place is Edinburgh.
Duluth, Minnesota is Tony Blair's nascence place.
Day Software's foundation place is Basel.
Palm, Inc.'s foundation place is United States.
Mammootty's birth place is Hodgenville, Kentucky.
Liverpool is Pierre Trudeau's nascence place.
Camp Rock stars Nick Jonas.
2012 (film) stars Amanda Peet.
2012 (film) stars Danny Glover
Tom Hanks' birth place is New York City.
New York City is Mammootty's nascence place.
Cadence Design Systems' subsidiary is Billpoint.
Count Basie's death place is Hollywood, Florida.
Ljubljana is Josip Broz Tito's last place.
Elizabeth Taylor's death place is Los Angeles.
Elizabethton, Tennessee is Andrew Johnson's last place.
Electronic Arts' subsidiary is Portal Software.
Sunopsis is IBM's subordinate.
Jelena Janković's birth place is Plains, Georgia.
Saginaw, Michigan is Bryan Adams' nascence place.
J. J. Thomson's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Nobel Prize in Physics is Gabriel Lippmann's honour.
Johannes Diderik van der Waals' award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Usher (entertainer)'s birth place is Portland, Maine.
Barnwell, South Carolina is Quentin Tarantino's nascence place.
Nobel Peace Prize is International Atomic Energy Agency's honour.
Karl von Frisch's award is Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
Martina Navratilova's birth place is Gary, Indiana.
Albany, Georgia is Justin Timberlake's nascence place.
William Ewart Gladstone's birth place is Dallas.
Compton, California is Mark Woodforde's nascence place.
Gustaf Dalén's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Max von Laue's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Nobel Prize in Physics is Charles Glover Barkla's honour.
Johannes Stark's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Nobel Prize in Physics is Albert Einstein's honour.
Robert Andrews Millikan's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Nobel Prize in Physics is James Franck's honour.
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's award is Nobel Peace Prize.
Tacoma, Washington is Chris Evert's nascence place.
Harry S. Truman's birth place is Memphis, Tennessee.
Miguel Ángel Asturias' award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Rudyard Kipling's honour.
H. A. Lorentz's award is Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
Andrew Huxley's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Grameen Bank's honour.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Charles Thomson Rees Wilson's honour.
William Henry Bragg's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Charles Thomson Rees Wilson's honour.
François Jacob's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Wangari Maathai's honour.
Heike Kamerlingh Onnes' award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Gao Xingjian's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Giosuè Carducci's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Frans Eemil Sillanpää's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is John Steinbeck's honour.
Vicente Aleixandre's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is William Faulkner's honour.
Władysław Reymont's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Maurice Maeterlinck's honour.
Frederick the Great's death place is Indianapolis.
Camden, New Jersey is Calvin Coolidge's last place.
Elizabeth Taylor's death place is Melbourne.
The Hague is Woody Guthrie's last place.
Sammy Davis, Jr.'s death place is Hidden Hills, California.
Fremont, Ohio is Eugene O'Neill's last place.
William McKinley's death place is New York City.
New York City is Ella Fitzgerald's last place.
Arthur Ashe's death place is Los Angeles.
Cambridge, Massachusetts is Gary Cooper's last place.
Akbar's death place is Cuernavaca.
Seattle is George Jones' last place.
Jonathan Swift's death place is New York City.
Kenzaburō Ōe's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Halldór Laxness' award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Paul Heyse's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Dario Fo's award.
Sinclair Lewis' award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Heinrich Böll's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
James Franck's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Ahmed Zewail's honour.
Andrew Huxley's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Anatole France's honour.
Mikhail Sholokhov's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Theodor Mommsen's honour.
Romain Rolland's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Juan Ramón Jiménez's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Thomas Mann's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Toni Morrison's honour.
Wisława Szymborska's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Henryk Sienkiewicz's honour.
W. B. Yeats' award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is John Galsworthy's honour.
Mad Max stars Marilyn Ghigliotti.
A Hard Day's Night (film) stars Jeffrey Jones.
Kill Bill stars Lisa Marie (actress).
Nuremberg is Hermann Göring's death place.
Humphrey Bogart's death place is Los Angeles.
Nashville, Tennessee is George Jones' last place.
Roy Orbison's death place is Hendersonville, Tennessee.
Last Action Hero stars Patricia Arquette.
Mean Girls stars Alan Arkin.
Camp Rock stars Dianne Wiest.
Superbad (film) stars Kathy Baker.
Interlink Computer Sciences is Cisco Systems' subordinate.
Oracle Corporation's subsidiary is Conrail.
Westwood Studios is Yahoo!'s subordinate.
Oracle Corporation's subsidiary is Zimbra.
Corixa is Hewlett-Packard's subordinate.
J. M. Coetzee's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Roger Martin du Gard's honour.
Verner von Heidenstam's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Ivan Bunin's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Jacinto Benavente's honour.
José Saramago's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Luigi Pirandello's honour.
François Mauriac's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Derek Walcott's honour.
George W. Bush's birth place is New Haven, Connecticut.
Duluth, Minnesota is Bob Dylan's nascence place.
Abraham Lincoln's birth place is Hodgenville, Kentucky.
Liverpool is John Lennon's nascence place.
Robert Christgau's birth place is New York City.
New York City is Jay-Z's nascence place.
Jimmy Carter's birth place is Plains, Georgia.
Long Branch, New Jersey is Bruce Springsteen's nascence place.
Jimi Hendrix's birth place is Seattle.
Staunton, Virginia is Woodrow Wilson's nascence place.
Venus Williams' birth place is Lynwood, California.
Omaha, Nebraska is Andy Roddick's nascence place.
Kylie Minogue's birth place is Melbourne.
Toronto is Neil Young's nascence place.
Stephen King's birth place is Portland, Maine.
Tacoma, Washington is Bing Crosby's nascence place.
Yoko Ono's birth place is Tokyo.
Franklin D. Roosevelt's death place is Warm Springs, Georgia.
John F. Kennedy's death place is Dallas.
Harry S. Truman's death place is Kansas City, Missouri.
Johnny Cash's death place is Nashville, Tennessee.
Santa Monica, California is Miles Davis' last place.
Walt Disney's death place is Burbank, California.
Los Angeles is John Wayne's last place.
Edgar Allan Poe's death place is Baltimore.
Las Vegas is Tupac Shakur's last place.
Pierre Trudeau's death place is Montreal.
New York City is Richard Rodgers' last place.
Herbert Hoover's death place is New York City.
Quincy, Massachusetts is John Adams' last place.
William McKinley's death place is Buffalo, New York.
New York City is George Balanchine's last place.
Chet Atkins' death place is Nashville, Tennessee.
Beverly Hills, California is Harold Lloyd's last place.
John A. Macdonald's death place is Ottawa.
Roswell, Georgia is Curtis Mayfield's last place.
SevOne's foundation place is United States.
Serena Software's foundation place is Alcalá de Henares.
John Diefenbaker's death place is Ottawa.
Boston is Anthony Quinn's last place.
Gene Kelly's death place is Beverly Hills, California.
Palo Alto, California is Steve Jobs' last place.
Franklin Pierce's death place is Concord, New Hampshire.
Symantec's foundation place is Iceland.
Bozeman, Montana is Team and Concepts' innovation place.
Digital Research's foundation place is Vancouver.
Art Technology Group's foundation place is Berkeley, California.
California is Attensity's innovation place.
Ansys' foundation place is Woking.
Borland's foundation place is San Francisco.
Redxpress' foundation place is Pittsburgh.
Spiceworks' foundation place is Berkeley, California.
Portsmouth is Impetus Technologies' innovation place.
Angoss' foundation place is Shenzhen.
Providence, Rhode Island is Nokia's innovation place.
Acronis' foundation place is Huntington Beach, California.
MarkLogic's foundation place is Novato, California.
Critical Path, Inc.'s foundation place is Seattle.
Futuremark's foundation place is Pacific Grove, California.
Montreal is Angoss' innovation place.
Siebel Systems' foundation place is Belleville, Illinois.
Errol Flynn's death place is Vancouver.
Makati is Corazon Aquino's last place.
John C. Frémont's death place is New York City.
Jerry Goldsmith's death place is Beverly Hills, California.
Beverly Hills, California is Billy Wilder's last place.
John Lee Hooker's death place is Los Altos, California.
Oxford is Roald Dahl's last place.
Microsoft's foundation place is Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Endicott, New York is IBM's innovation place.
SAP AG's foundation place is Mannheim.
Sunnyvale, California is Interwoven's innovation place.
California is NeXT's innovation place.
SCO Group's foundation place is Santa Cruz, California.
Six Apart's foundation place is San Francisco.
Munich is Nemetschek's innovation place.
Attachmate's foundation place is Bellevue, Washington.
New York City is Blackbaud's innovation place.
Acronis' foundation place is United States.
Montreal is Strategy First's innovation place.
Salesforce.com's foundation place is California.
Bozeman, Montana is RightNow Technologies' innovation place.
MailChannels' foundation place is Vancouver.
QlikTech's foundation place is Lund.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Andrew Huxley's honour.
Guglielmo Marconi's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Frédéric Passy's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
François Jacob's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Kalevi Sorsa's office is Israel.
Canada is Edward Heath's role.
George Papandreou's office is Netherlands.
California is Kana Software's innovation place.
Helmi Technologies' foundation place is Oulu.
New York City is GoldenSource's innovation place.
Troy, Michigan is Syntel's innovation place.
United States is Information Builders' innovation place.
JetBrains' foundation place is Czech Republic.
New Zealand is Xero (software)'s foundation place.
KickApps' foundation place is New York City.
Palo Alto, California is Hewlett-Packard's innovation place.
Intuit Canada's foundation place is Edmonton.
Toronto is Delrina's innovation place.
Softpress' foundation place is Oxford.
California is Oracle Corporation's innovation place.
Critical Path, Inc.'s foundation place is San Francisco.
Redxpress' foundation place is Portsmouth.
Bloombase Technologies' foundation place is Shenzhen.
Providence, Rhode Island is SIMULIA's innovation place.
Mountain View, California is Financial Navigator's foundation place.
Mindscape's foundation place is Novato, California.
Big Fish Games' foundation place is Seattle.
Digital Research's foundation place is Pacific Grove, California.
Netherlands is Saddam Hussein's role.
Menachem Begin's office is Netherlands.
Netherlands is Paul-Henri Spaak's role.
Kakuei Tanaka's office is Netherlands.
Iceland is Joaquim Rafael Branco's role.
H. H. Asquith's office is Belgium.
Belgium is Hafez al-Assad's role.
Wilfrid Laurier's office is Belgium.
Israel is Wim Kok's role.
Joop den Uyl's office is Japan.
Japan is Vladimír Špidla's role.
Willem Drees' office is United Kingdom.
Montreal is Audiokinetic's innovation place.
Warwickshire is Codemasters' innovation place.
MokaFive's foundation place is California.
Seattle is Picnik's innovation place.
Techexcel's foundation place is Lafayette, California.
Mountain View, California is Spokeo's innovation place.
Materialise NV's foundation place is Leuven.
Geneva is Temenos Group's innovation place.
Jo Cals' office is Netherlands.
Iceland is Ásgeir Ásgeirsson's role.
Paul van Zeeland's office is Belgium.
Belgium is Pierre Harmel's role.
Gaston Eyskens' office is Belgium.
Israel is Yitzhak Shamir's role.
Osachi Hamaguchi's office is Japan.
Japan is Kakuei Tanaka's role.
Alec Douglas-Home's office is United Kingdom.
France is Jean Casimir-Perier's role.
Adolphe Thiers' office is France.
Pakistan is Benazir Bhutto's role.
José María Aznar's office is Spain.
Japan is Kiichi Miyazawa's role.
Tsutomu Hata's office is Japan.
Laos is Kaysone Phomvihane's role.
Kalevi Sorsa's office is Finland.
Iraq is Abd Al-Rahman Al-Gillani's role.
Lauri Ingman's office is Finland.
Finland is Aimo Cajander's role.
Naji Shawkat's office is Iraq.
Iraq is Abdul-Wahab Mirjan's role.
Elisabeth Domitien's office is Central African Republic.
France is Georges Pompidou's role.
Mikhail Kasyanov's office is Russia.
Malaysia is Mahathir Mohamad's role.
Ionatana Ionatana's office is Tuvalu.
Maria das Neves' office is São Tomé and Príncipe.
Manuel Azaña's office is Spain.
Luxembourg is Jacques Santer's role.
Poul Nyrup Rasmussen's office is Denmark.
Belgium is Jean-Luc Dehaene's role.
Édith Cresson's office is France.
Armenia is Vazgen Sargsyan's role.
Robert Bond's office is Dominion of Newfoundland.
Croatia is Stjepan Mesić's role.
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi's office is Malaysia.
Portugal is José Manuel Barroso's role.
Keizō Obuchi's office is Japan.
Portugal is Mário Soares' role.
Wilfried Martens' office is Belgium.
Malaysia is Abdul Razak Hussein's role.
Tunku Abdul Rahman's office is Malaysia.
Japan is Ryutaro Hashimoto's office.
P. W. Botha's office is South Africa.
Fiji is Mahendra Chaudhry's role.
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali's office is Tunisia.
Kevin Garnett's team is Boston Celtics.
Chicago Bulls is Ben Gordon's squad.
Emeka Okafor's team is Charlotte Bobcats.
Detroit Pistons is Chauncey Billups' squad.
Chauncey Billups' team is New York Knicks.
Carl Sagan is Heretics of Dune's author.
The Integral Trees' author is S. Fowler Wright.
Jonathan Lethem is Shadow of the Hegemon's generator.
Return from the Stars' author is John Brunner (novelist).
Flowers for Algernon's author is E. E. Smith.
Fifty Degrees Below's author is Douglas Adams.
Terry Pratchett is The Wheels of Chance's author.
The Wanderer (Fritz Leiber novel)'s author is Marge Piercy.
Alexander Jablokov is The Begum's Fortune's author.
Frankenstein's author is Vernor Vinge.
Isaac Asimov is So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish's author.
Flatland's author is Philip K. Dick.
Gentry Lee is Slaughterhouse-Five's generator.
Level 7's author is Roger Zelazny.
Kim Newman is This Perfect Day's generator.
Lord of Light's author is William Gibson.
Fritz Leiber is Contact (novel)'s author.
Los Angeles Clippers is Elton Brand's team.
Elton Brand's team is Dallas Mavericks.
Utah Jazz is Carlos Boozer's squad.
Ray Allen's team is Boston Celtics.
San Antonio Spurs is Richard Jefferson's squad.
Shawn Marion's team is Miami Heat.
Detroit Pistons is Carlos Delfino's squad.
Carlos Delfino's team is Houston Rockets.
Los Angeles Lakers is Kwame Brown's squad.
Kwame Brown's team is Detroit Pistons.
Golden State Warriors is Kwame Brown's squad.
Tyler Hansbrough's team is Indiana Pacers.
Charlotte Bobcats is Gerald Wallace's squad.
Shaun Livingston's team is Los Angeles Clippers.
Oklahoma City Thunder is Shaun Livingston's squad.
Miami Heat is Mike Miller (basketball player)'s team.
John Lucas III's team is Houston Rockets.
Chicago Bulls is John Lucas III's squad.
Travis Barker is Craig Conway (actor)'s spouse.
Kris Humphries is Tori Spelling's spouse.
Nazr Mohammed's team is New York Knicks.
Detroit Pistons is Nazr Mohammed's squad.
Ayumi Hamasaki is Diether Ocampo's better half.
Rihanna's spouse is Jennifer Lopez.
Tony Parker's spouse is Marton Csokas.
Persia White is Lee Ryan's better half.
Kim Kardashian's spouse is Angham.
Matt LeBlanc is Nicholas Tse's better half.
Ricky Groves' spouse is Jesús Franco.
Love Actually stars Daryl Hannah.
Clerks stars Gordon Liu.
2012 (film) stars Lucy Liu
Om Shanti Om stars Uma Thurman.
Camp Rock stars Brad Pitt.
A Hard Day's Night (film) stars Alan Rickman.
Mad Max stars Colin Firth.
Mean Girls stars Hugh Grant.
The Aristocats stars Laura Linney
Mad Max stars Martine McCutcheon.
Edward Scissorhands stars Ashley Tisdale.
Nazr Mohammed's team is Oklahoma City Thunder.
Los Angeles Clippers is Kenyon Martin's squad.
Zach Randolph's team is New York Knicks.
Dallas Mavericks is Chris Kaman's squad.
Al Jefferson's team is Boston Celtics.
Utah Jazz is Al Jefferson's squad.
Samuel Dalembert's team is Sacramento Kings.
New York Knicks is Jamal Crawford's squad.
Jamal Crawford's team is Atlanta Hawks.
Atlanta Hawks is Marvin Williams' squad.
Shane Battier's team is Houston Rockets.
Houston Rockets is Luis Scola's squad.
Channing Frye's team is New York Knicks.
Kwame Brown's team is Los Angeles Clippers.
Houston Rockets is Tyson Chandler's squad.
Shaun Livingston's team is New York Knicks.
Utah Jazz is Pau Gasol's squad.
Deron Williams' team is Minnesota Timberwolves.
Dallas Mavericks is Tayshaun Prince's squad.
Shaun Livingston's team is Boston Celtics.
Houston Rockets is Ian Mahinmi's squad.
Nazr Mohammed's team is Los Angeles Lakers.
Golden State Warriors is Shane Battier's squad.
Utah Jazz is Deron Williams' squad.
Martell Webster's team is Minnesota Timberwolves.
Dallas Mavericks is Ian Mahinmi's squad.
Gerald Green's team is Boston Celtics.
Houston Rockets is Gerald Green's squad.
Andrew Bynum's team is Los Angeles Lakers.
When HARLIE Was One's author is David Gerrold.
The Truce at Bakura's author is Kathy Tyers.
The World Is Round's author is Tony Rothman.
Golden State Warriors is Monta Ellis' squad.
Tony Allen (basketball)'s team is Boston Celtics.
Isaac Asimov is The Caves of Steel's generator.
Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?'s author is Philip K. Dick.
Poul Anderson is The Boat of a Million Years' generator.
Neuromancer's author is William Gibson.
Brian Aldiss is Non-Stop (novel)'s author.
Options (novel)'s author is Robert Sheckley.
William Tenn is Immodest Proposals' generator.
Jack Dann is Wandering Stars' generator.
The Postman's author is David Brin.
Kim Newman is Back in the USSA's generator.
Worldwar: Upsetting the Balance's author is Harry Turtledove.
Neal Stephenson is The Big U's generator.
Summon the Thunder's author is Kevin Dilmore.
Frank Herbert is Heretics of Dune's author.
The Integral Trees' author is Larry Niven.
Orson Scott Card is Shadow of the Hegemon's generator.
Return from the Stars' author is Stanisław Lem.
Daniel Keyes is Flowers for Algernon's generator.
Fifty Degrees Below's author is Kim Stanley Robinson.
The Wheels of Chance's author is H. G. Wells.
The Wanderer (Fritz Leiber novel)'s author is Fritz Leiber.
Jules Verne is The Begum's Fortune's author.
Frankenstein's author is Mary Shelley.
Flatland's author is Edwin Abbott Abbott.
Kurt Vonnegut is Slaughterhouse-Five's generator.
Level 7's author is Mordecai Roshwald.
Ira Levin is This Perfect Day's generator.
J. R. Smith's team is New Orleans Hornets.
Chris Kaman's team is Los Angeles Clippers.
Lord of Light's author is Roger Zelazny.
Carl Sagan is Contact (novel)'s author.
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court's author is Mark Twain.
Dallas Mavericks is Kwame Brown's squad.
Metta World Peace's team is Boston Celtics.
Utah Jazz is Nazr Mohammed's squad.
Raymond Felton's team is Sacramento Kings.
New York Knicks is Metta World Peace's squad.
Ian Mahinmi's team is Atlanta Hawks.
Atlanta Hawks is Gerald Green's squad.
Shaun Livingston's team is Houston Rockets.
Gentry Lee is The Garden of Rama's generator.
Orbital Resonance (novel)'s author is John Barnes (author).
334 (novel)'s author is Thomas M. Disch.
The War Machine's author is Roger MacBride Allen.
Walter Jon Williams is Aristoi (novel)'s author.
Castle (novel)'s author is Garth Nix.
Doris Lessing is The Sentimental Agents in the Volyen Empire's generator.
Riddley Walker's author is Russell Hoban.
Michael Swanwick is Jack Faust (novel)'s author.
The Demolished Man's author is Alfred Bester.
The Last Book in the Universe's author is Rodman Philbrick.
Fallen Angels (science fiction novel)'s author is Michael F. Flynn.
Apple Inc.'s foundation place is Oulu.
New York City is Ansys' innovation place.
MontaVista's foundation place is Washington (state).
Art Technology Group's foundation place is Troy, Michigan.
A Canticle for Leibowitz's author is Walter M. Miller, Jr.
Out of the Silent Planet's author is C. S. Lewis.
Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde's author is Robert Louis Stevenson.
Yevgeny Zamyatin is We (novel)'s author.
Good Omens' author is Terry Pratchett.
Joe Haldeman is The Forever War's generator.
A Door into Ocean's author is Joan Slonczewski.
United States is Futuremark's innovation place.
Valve Corporation's foundation place is Czech Republic.
New Zealand is Hyperion Entertainment's innovation place.
IBM's foundation place is New York City.
Codemasters' foundation place is Edmonton.
Toronto is Applied Minds' innovation place.
Intergraph's foundation place is Oxford.
Redxpress' foundation place is California.
The Neutronium Alchemist's author is Peter F. Hamilton.
A Calculus of Angels' author is Gregory Keyes.
Robert Silverberg is A Time of Changes' generator.
Where Late the Sweet Birds Sang's author is Kate Wilhelm.
Stephen King is Carrie (novel)'s author.
Wheelers (novel)'s author is Ian Stewart (mathematician).
The Poison Belt's author is Arthur Conan Doyle.
Vril's author is Edward Bulwer-Lytton, 1st Baron Lytton.
Edwin Balmer is When Worlds Collide's generator.
The Passion of New Eve's author is Angela Carter.
The Night of the Triffids' author is Simon Clark (novelist).
Kate Winslet's spouse is Sam Mendes.
Tom Cruise is Katie Holmes' better half.
Jenny McCarthy is Jim Carrey's better half.
Heath Ledger's spouse is Michelle Williams (actress).
Jemima Khan's spouse is Hugh Grant.
Sebastian Koch's spouse is Carice van Houten.
Miranda Raison is Raza Jaffrey's better half.
Zöe Salmon's spouse is Gerard McCarthy.
Kristine Hermosa is Diether Ocampo's better half.
Jill Halfpenny is Craig Conway (actor)'s spouse.
Andrés Calamaro's spouse is Julieta Cardinali.
Jared Harris is Emilia Fox's better half.
Ashton Kutcher's spouse is Demi Moore.
Nicholas Tse's spouse is Cecilia Cheung.
Amy Spanger's spouse is Michael C. Hall.
Elsa Pataky's spouse is Adrien Brody.
Howard K. Stern's spouse is Anna Nicole Smith.
Robert Rodriguez's spouse is Rose McGowan.
Richard Li is Isabella Leong's better half.
Poppy Montgomery's spouse is Adam Kaufman (actor).
Travis Barker is Shanna Moakler's better half.
Susan Lanier's spouse is Delaney Bramlett.
Ted Harbert is Chelsea Handler's better half.
Kris Humphries is Kim Kardashian's better half.
Karan Singh Grover is Shraddha Nigam's better half.
Saul Williams' spouse is Persia White.
Hannah Waterman is Ricky Groves' better half.
Tamara Brooks' spouse is Theodore Bikel.
Seal (musician) is Heidi Klum's better half.
Alexandre Pato's spouse is Sthefany Brito.
Patricio Borghetti's spouse is Grettell Valdéz.
Aarón Díaz's spouse is Kate del Castillo.
Christopher Knight (actor)'s spouse is Adrianne Curry.
Jeffrey Dean Morgan's spouse is Mary-Louise Parker.
Usher (entertainer) is Tameka Foster's better half.
Ali Landry's spouse is Mario Lopez.
Abbie Cornish is Ryan Phillippe's better half.
Haylie Duff is Nick Zano's better half.
Tom Hanks' birth place is Richland Center, Wisconsin.
Belleville, Ontario is Michael Jordan's nascence place.
Bob Dylan's birth place is Brooklyn.
Lincoln, Nebraska is Max Mirnyi's nascence place.
Dolly Parton's birth place is New York City.
Björk's birth place is Kumasi.
Boston is Ringo Starr's nascence place.
Will.i.am's birth place is Hoboken, New Jersey.
Victoria, British Columbia is Mahesh Bhupathi's nascence place.
Rudyard Kipling's birth place is Birmingham, Alabama.
Philadelphia is Lleyton Hewitt's nascence place.
Marc Anthony's spouse is Jennifer Lopez.
Kill Bill stars Gordon Liu.
Kill Bill stars Lucy Liu.
Kill Bill stars Uma Thurman.
Seven (film) stars Brad Pitt
Love Actually stars Alan Rickman.
Love Actually stars Colin Firth.
Love Actually stars Hugh Grant.
Herbert Spencer Gasser's award is Nobel Peace Prize.
Nobel Peace Prize is Max Planck's honour.
Rudyard Kipling's award is Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
José Echegaray's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Joseph Brodsky's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Herbert A. Hauptman's award is Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
Shirin Ebadi's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
T. S. Eliot's award is Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
Harold Urey's award is Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
Nobel Prize in Chemistry is Theodor Mommsen's honour.
On the Waterfront stars Marlon Brando.
Camp Rock stars Alyson Stoner.
Camp Rock stars Demi Lovato.
Camp Rock stars Joe Jonas.
Camp Rock stars Maria Canals Barrera.
2012 (film) stars Oliver Platt.
Chet Atkins' death place is Agra.
Los Angeles is Herbert Hoover's last place.
Curtis Mayfield's death place is Münster.
Nuremberg is Conway Twitty's last place.
Billy Preston's death place is Los Angeles.
Nashville, Tennessee is Kurt Cobain's last place.
Michael Jackson's death place is Hendersonville, Tennessee.
2012 (film) stars Woody Harrelson
Mad Max stars Hugh Keays-Byrne.
Mad Max stars Mel Gibson.
Mad Max stars Tim Burns.
A Hard Day's Night (film) stars John Junkin
A Hard Day's Night (film) stars Maggie d'Abo.
Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me stars Mike Myers (actor).
Dizzy Gillespie's death place is New York City.
Quincy, Massachusetts is Ray Charles' last place.
Adam Smith's death place is Buffalo, New York.
Naples, Florida is Sivaji Ganesan's last place.
Hank Williams' death place is Beverly Hills, California.
Los Angeles is Oscar Peterson's last place.
Ferdinand von Mueller's death place is Hollywood, Florida.
Ljubljana is John Lee Hooker's last place.
Robert Menzies' death place is Los Angeles.
Elizabethton, Tennessee is John Lennon's last place.
New York City is Howard Hughes' last place.
Saddam Hussein's death place is Caracas.
New York City is Billy Wilder's last place.
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's death place is Nashville, Tennessee.
Beverly Hills, California is Calvin Coolidge's last place.
Benjamin Franklin's death place is Ottawa.
Dublin is Humphrey Bogart's last place.
Cary Grant's death place is Tunis.
Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me stars Robert Wagner.
Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me stars Will Ferrell.
Savannah, Georgia is Benjamin Franklin's nascence place.
Avril Lavigne's birth place is Edina, Minnesota.
Unquillo is Brian Wilson's nascence place.
Robert Christgau's birth place is Niles, Ohio.
Cambridge is Paul Haarhuis' nascence place.
Venus Williams' birth place is Paramakudi.
Los Angeles is Bob Dylan's nascence place.
A Hard Day's Night (film) stars Paul McCartney
A Hard Day's Night (film) stars The Beatles.
A Hard Day's Night (film) stars Wilfrid Brambell
Cole Porter's birth place is Louisville, Kentucky.
Manchester is Samantha Stosur's nascence place.
Om Shanti Om stars Deepika Padukone.
Om Shanti Om stars Shah Rukh Khan.
Om Shanti Om stars Yuvika Chaudhary.
The Aristocats stars Eva Gabor.
The Aristocats stars Hermione Gingold
Golden State Warriors is Nazr Mohammed's squad.
Gerald Wallace's team is Indiana Pacers.
Charlotte Bobcats is Ben Gordon's squad.
Tyson Chandler's team is Los Angeles Clippers.
Oklahoma City Thunder is Elton Brand's team.
Andrei Kirilenko's team is Charlotte Bobcats.
Mike Dunleavy, Jr.'s team is Cleveland Cavaliers.
The Aristocats stars Phil Harris.
Ghostbusters II stars Rick Moranis.
Last Action Hero stars Anthony Quinn
Last Action Hero stars Art Carney.
Last Action Hero stars Bridgette Wilson
Last Action Hero stars F. Murray Abraham.
Last Action Hero stars Tom Noonan
Superbad (film) stars Jonah Hill.
Stars Tom Noonan has been clerked Clerks.
A Hard Day's Night (film) stars Lacey Chabert.
Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me stars Lizzy Caplan.
Ed Wood (film) stars Tina Fey.
2012 (film) stars Harry Shearer
Mad Max stars Kevin Dunn.
On the Waterfront stars Matthew Broderick
2012 (film) stars Barbara Hershey.
Camp Rock stars Ed Harris.
Clerks stars Harry Shearer.
High School Musical 2 stars Jeff Goldblum
Kill Bill stars Lance Henriksen.
Last Action Hero stars Scott Glenn
Superbad (film) stars Seth Rogen.
Stars Jason Mewes has been clerked Clerks.
Clerks stars Kevin Smith.
Stars Marilyn Ghigliotti has been clerked Clerks.
Ed Wood (film) stars Jeffrey Jones.
Ed Wood (film) stars Lisa Marie (actress).
Ed Wood (film) stars Patricia Arquette.
Edward Scissorhands stars Alan Arkin.
Edward Scissorhands stars Dianne Wiest.
Edward Scissorhands stars Kathy Baker.
Piers Anthony is Wandering Stars' generator.
The Postman's author is Vernor Vinge.
Back in the USSA's author is China Miéville.
Worldwar: Upsetting the Balance's author is Angela Carter.
The Big U's author is Thomas M. Disch.
Summon the Thunder's author is Poul Anderson.
A Canticle for Leibowitz's author is Philip Wylie.
Stephen Baxter is Out of the Silent Planet's author.
Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde's author is Douglas Adams.
Cascade Communications is Ascend Communications' subordinate.
Interlink Computer Sciences is CA Technologies' subordinate.
Norfolk Southern Railway's subsidiary is Conrail.
ABC Family Worldwide Inc.'s subsidiary is Television South.
The Walt Disney Company's subsidiary is Fox Kids.
Yahoo!'s subsidiary is BlueLithium.
Yahoo!'s subsidiary is EGroups.
Snapfish is Hewlett-Packard's subordinate.
BEA Systems' subsidiary is Plumtree Software.
Oracle Hyperion is Oracle Corporation's subordinate.
Terayon is Motorola's subordinate.
EBay's subsidiary is Billpoint.
Oracle Corporation's subsidiary is Portal Software.
Sunopsis is Oracle Corporation's subordinate.
Nobel Peace Prize is Jacinto Benavente's honour.
Thomas Mann's award is Nobel Peace Prize.
Nobel Prize in Physics is Shirin Ebadi's honour.
Pablo Neruda's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Pär Lagerkvist's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
The Right Stuff (film) stars Lance Henriksen.
The Right Stuff (film) stars Scott Glenn
Imre Kertész's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Nobel Prize in Physics is Jaroslav Seifert's honour.
Juan Ramón Jiménez's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Nobel Prize in Physics is Grazia Deledda's honour.
George Minot's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Nobel Prize in Physics is Eugenio Montale's honour.
Newark, Delaware is SevOne's innovation place.
Condusiv Technologies' foundation place is Glendale, California.
Santa Monica, California is Pandemic Studios' innovation place.
Futuremark's foundation place is Espoo.
IBM Internet Security Systems' foundation place is Atlanta.
Israel is Ariel Sharon's role.
Gordon Brown's office is United Kingdom.
John Sparrow David Thompson's office is Canada.
High School Musical 2 stars Lucas Grabeel.
High School Musical 2 stars Vanessa Hudgens
Nobel Prize in Physics is Albert Camus' award.
Rudyard Kipling's award is Nobel Peace Prize.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Herbert Spencer Gasser's honour.
Charles Glover Barkla's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Max Planck's honour.
Gustaf Dalén's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Mean Girls stars Lacey Chabert.
Mean Girls stars Lizzy Caplan.
Mean Girls stars Tina Fey.
Godzilla (1998 film) stars Harry Shearer.
Godzilla (1998 film) stars Kevin Dunn.
Carlos Boozer's team is Portland Trail Blazers.
Portland Trail Blazers is Nazr Mohammed's squad.
Andrei Kirilenko's team is Indiana Pacers.
Houston Rockets is Kenyon Martin's squad.
Deron Williams' team is Golden State Warriors.
Los Angeles Lakers is Jason Terry's squad.
Mike Miller (basketball player)'s team is Dallas Mavericks.
Philadelphia 76ers is LeBron James' squad.
Godzilla (1998 film) stars Matthew Broderick.
The Right Stuff (film) stars Barbara Hershey.
The Right Stuff (film) stars Ed Harris
Predator (film) stars Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Predator (film) stars Carl Weathers.
Predator (film) stars Kevin Peter Hall.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Jimmy Carter's honour.
Johannes Stark's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Pierre Curie's honour.
Heike Kamerlingh Onnes' award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
François Jacob's award is Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
Herbert A. Hauptman's award is Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo's award is Nobel Peace Prize.
Englewood, New Jersey is Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's last place.
George Jones' death place is Santa Ana, California.
Los Angeles is Errol Flynn's last place.
Clark Gable's death place is New Orleans.
Oak Hill, West Virginia is Mary Pickford's last place.
William Randolph Hearst's death place is New York City.
Nobel Prize in Chemistry is Svante Arrhenius' honour.
The Aristocats stars Sterling Holloway
Ghostbusters II stars Bill Murray.
Ghostbusters II stars Ernie Hudson.
Harry Martinson's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Giorgos Seferis' honour.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Max von Laue's award.
Frédéric Passy's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Heike Kamerlingh Onnes' award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Ahmed Zewail's honour.
William Henry Bragg's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Svante Arrhenius' award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo's award.
Seamus Heaney's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Love Actually stars Laura Linney.
Love Actually stars Martine McCutcheon.
High School Musical 2 stars Ashley Tisdale
François Jacob's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Charles Thomson Rees Wilson's honour.
James Franck's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Niels Bohr's honour.
Andrew Schally's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Wilhelm Röntgen's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Andrew Schally's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Jimmy Carter's award is Nobel Peace Prize.
Nobel Prize in Literature is David Baltimore's honour.
Nobel Prize in Physics is Walther Bothe's honour.
Arno Allan Penzias' award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine is Herbert Spencer Gasser's honour.
Robert Hofstadter's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine is George Minot's honour.
Henri Becquerel's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
H. A. Lorentz's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
International Atomic Energy Agency's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
International Atomic Energy Agency's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Herbert Spencer Gasser's honour.
Manne Siegbahn's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Immanuel Kant's birth place is Prague.
Portsmouth is Arthur Conan Doyle's nascence place.
John Adams' birth place is Edinburgh.
Long Branch, New Jersey is Timbaland's nascence place.
John Coltrane's birth place is Seattle.
Staunton, Virginia is Chris Evert's nascence place.
The Right Stuff (film) stars Harry Shearer.
The Right Stuff (film) stars Jeff Goldblum
David Ferrer's birth place is Lynwood, California.
Omaha, Nebraska is James Brown's nascence place.
Wilhelm Röntgen's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Henri Becquerel's award is Nobel Prize in Physics.
Nobel Prize in Physics is John Strutt, 3rd Baron Rayleigh's honour.
Bill Clinton's birth place is Melbourne.
Toronto is Stevie Wonder's nascence place.
Oscar Wilde's birth place is Baltimore.
Brno is Mark Woodforde's nascence place.
Naples, Florida is Donna Summer's death place.
Ira Gershwin's death place is Beverly Hills, California.
Robert F. Kennedy's death place is Los Angeles.
Akbar's death place is Agra.
Los Angeles is Fred Astaire's last place.
Kurt Aland's death place is Münster.
New York City is Arthur Ashe's last place.
Hugo Chávez's death place is Caracas.
Englewood, New Jersey is Thelonious Monk's last place.
Philip K. Dick's death place is Santa Ana, California.
Los Angeles is Hal Roach's last place.
Jefferson Davis' death place is New Orleans.
Oak Hill, West Virginia is Hank Williams' last place.
James Monroe's death place is New York City.
Serena Williams' birth place is The Bronx.
San Francisco is Ivan Ljubičić's nascence place.
Paul McCartney's birth place is Inglewood, California.
Birmingham is Bob Dylan's nascence place.
John Lennon's birth place is El Centro, California.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Patrick White's honour.
Fenghua is Bob Dylan's nascence place.
Nas' birth place is Queens.
Stoke-on-Trent is Christina Aguilera's nascence place.
William III of England's birth place is Harare.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Sigrid Undset's honour.
Christopher Knight (actor)'s spouse is Morgan Paull.
Scarlett Johansson's spouse is Persia White.
Hannah Waterman is Heidi Klum's better half.
Yasunari Kawabata's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Gabriela Mistral's honour.
The Bronx is Tom Hanks' nascence place.
John Adams' birth place is Dublin.
Montreal is Andy Roddick's nascence place.
Andre Agassi's birth place is Belgrade.
Belgrade is Nas' nascence place.
Arthur Conan Doyle's birth place is Peru, Indiana.
Chempu is Beyoncé Knowles' nascence place.
Oscar Wilde's birth place is Providence, Rhode Island.
New York City is Tim Henman's nascence place.
Bruce Springsteen's birth place is Dublin.
Minsk is Bill Clinton's nascence place.
Barnwell, South Carolina is James Brown's nascence place.
Janet Jackson's birth place is Gary, Indiana.
Albany, Georgia is Ray Charles' nascence place.
Usher (entertainer)'s birth place is Dallas.
Dr. Dre's birth place is Compton, California.
Frank Zappa's birth place is Baltimore.
Brno is Jana Novotná's nascence place.
Mary J. Blige's birth place is The Bronx.
San Francisco is Clint Eastwood's nascence place.
Brian Wilson's birth place is Inglewood, California.
Birmingham is Ozzy Osbourne's nascence place.
Cher's birth place is El Centro, California.
Fenghua is Chiang Kai-shek's nascence place.
George Orwell's birth place is Reykjavík.
Adelaide is Venus Williams' nascence place.
Helena Suková's birth place is Toronto.
Edinburgh is Quentin Tarantino's nascence place.
Guyana is Bharrat Jagdeo's role.
Baburam Bhattarai's office is Nepal.
Algeria is Ahmed Ouyahia's role.
Amy Spanger's spouse is Theodore Bikel.
Seal (musician) is Susannah Harker's better half.
Ricky Groves' spouse is Grettell Valdéz.
Carmine Giovinazzo's spouse is Leo Burmester.
Jigme Thinley's office is Bhutan.
Djibouti is Dileita Mohamed Dileita's role.
Billy Joel's birth place is Oxford.
Cincinnati is Jeff Gordon's nascence place.
Chiang Kai-shek's birth place is Tokyo.
Pierre Trudeau's last place is Warm Springs, Georgia.
Kurt Aland's death place is Dallas.
C. S. Lewis' death place is Kansas City, Missouri.
Billy Wilder's death place is Nashville, Tennessee.
Santa Monica, California is Lucille Ball's last place.
Andy Williams' death place is Burbank, California.
Los Angeles is Herman Melville's last place.
George Jones' death place is Baltimore.
Las Vegas is David Hume's last place.
South Africa is Louis Botha's role.
Pedro Pires' office is Cape Verde.
Pau Gasol's team is Memphis Grizzlies.
Cleveland Cavaliers is LeBron James' squad.
Tayshaun Prince's team is Chicago Bulls.
Indiana Pacers is Pau Gasol's squad.
Steve Blake's team is Boston Celtics.
Charlotte Bobcats is Martell Webster's squad.
Chris Bosh's team is Orlando Magic.
New York Knicks is Kwame Brown's squad.
Andrew Bynum's team is Portland Trail Blazers.
Chicago Bulls is Mike Miller (basketball player)'s team.
Shane Battier's team is Charlotte Bobcats.
Golden State Warriors is Kyle Korver's squad.
Raymond Felton's team is Minnesota Timberwolves.
Miami Heat is Gerald Green's squad.
David Lee (basketball)'s team is Houston Rockets.
Chicago Bulls is Richard Jefferson's squad.
Kwame Brown's team is New York Knicks.
Detroit Pistons is Jamal Crawford's squad.
Amir Johnson's team is Oklahoma City Thunder.
Los Angeles Clippers is Rasheed Wallace's squad.
Andrei Kirilenko's team is Utah Jazz.
Orlando Magic is Dwight Howard's squad.
Rasheed Wallace's team is Atlanta Hawks.
Boston Celtics is Rasheed Wallace's squad.
James K. Polk's death place is Montreal.
New York City is Corazon Aquino's last place.
L. Sprague de Camp's death place is Archer, Florida.
Rutherford B. Hayes' death place is Edinburgh.
Madison, Wisconsin is Billy Preston's last place.
Tupac Shakur's death place is Plano, Texas.
Hamburg is Hubert Humphrey's last place.
Santa Barbara, California is Bo Diddley's last place.
Ludwig Wittgenstein's death place is Fayetteville, Georgia.
Synthesis & Other Virtual Realities' author is Mary Rosenblum.
Beyond Apollo's author is Barry N. Malzberg.
The Throne of Saturn (short story collection)'s author is S. Fowler Wright.
Voyages by Starlight's author is Ian R. MacLeod.
Wizard (novel)'s author is John Varley (author).
Iain Banks is Whit's generator.
The Breath of Suspension's author is Alexander Jablokov.
Michael Shea (author) is Polyphemus (book)'s author.
The Urth of the New Sun's author is Gene Wolfe.
The Collected Short Fiction of C. J. Cherryh's author is C. J. Cherryh.
Again, Dangerous Visions' author is Harlan Ellison.
Roswell, Georgia is James Stewart's last place.
Benjamin Franklin's death place is Vancouver.
Makati is Oscar Peterson's last place.
Hal Roach's death place is Ottawa.
Boston is Slobodan Milošević's last place.
Douglas Adams' death place is Beverly Hills, California.
James K. Polk's death place is Palo Alto, California.
James Stewart's death place is Concord, New Hampshire.
James K. Polk's death place is New York City.
Bob Marley's death place is Beverly Hills, California.
Beverly Hills, California is Clark Gable's last place.
Rutherford B. Hayes' death place is Los Altos, California.
Valve Corporation's foundation place is Kirkland, Washington.
India is Impetus Technologies' innovation place.
Nokia's foundation place is Nokia, Finland.
Hamberg is Navigon's innovation place.
Netherlands is Jan Peter Balkenende's role.
Golda Meir's office is Israel.
Canada is Jean Chrétien's role.
Ruud Lubbers' office is Netherlands.
Netherlands is Jelle Zijlstra's role.
Barend Biesheuvel's office is Netherlands.
Netherlands is Piet de Jong's role.
Oxford is John Wayne's last place.
LogiSense's foundation place is Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Rogue Wave Software's foundation place is Endicott, New York.
Palm, Inc.'s foundation place is San Francisco.
Madrid is Danger (company)'s foundation place.
IntelliCorp (software)'s foundation place is Mannheim.
Critical Path, Inc.'s foundation place is Orlando, Florida.
Fujitsu's foundation place is Santa Cruz, California.
Munich is Codemasters' innovation place.
QlikTech's foundation place is Bellevue, Washington.
Warwickshire is LogiSense's innovation place.
Dublin is Jonathan Swift's last place.
Louis IX of France's death place is Tunis.
Archer, Florida is Bo Diddley's last place.
Adam Smith's death place is Edinburgh.
Madison, Wisconsin is Otis Redding's death place.
L. Sprague de Camp's death place is Plano, Texas.
Hamburg is Heinrich Gustav Reichenbach's last place.
Benjamin Harrison's death place is Indianapolis.
Camden, New Jersey is Walt Whitman's last place.
Robert Menzies' death place is Melbourne.
The Hague is Slobodan Milošević's last place.
Sarah Vaughan's death place is Hidden Hills, California.
Rutherford B. Hayes' death place is Fremont, Ohio.
Roscoe Arbuckle's death place is New York City.
New York City is Kurt Vonnegut's last place.
Burt Lancaster's death place is Los Angeles.
Cambridge, Massachusetts is Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's last place.
Charles Mingus' death place is Cuernavaca.
Seattle is Kurt Cobain's last place.
Herman Melville's death place is New York City.
Santa Barbara, California is Robert Mitchum's last place.
Chris Benoit's death place is Fayetteville, Georgia.
Big Fish Games' foundation place is Basel.
United States is Day Software's innovation place.
Softdisk's foundation place is California.
Seattle is Team and Concepts' innovation place.
Yahoo!'s foundation place is Lafayette, California.
Mountain View, California is MetaComCo's innovation place.
Geneva is Comarch's innovation place.
Microsoft's foundation place is Kirkland, Washington.
India is SevOne's innovation place.
OpenLink Software's foundation place is Nokia, Finland.
Hamberg is Softdisk's innovation place.
Rogue Wave Software's foundation place is Belgrade.
California is Spiceworks' innovation place.
IntelliCorp (software)'s foundation place is Cumming, Georgia.
Newark, Delaware is Team and Concepts' innovation place.
Justin Timberlake's birth place is Memphis, Tennessee.
Martin Scorsese's birth place is Queens.
Stoke-on-Trent is Robbie Williams' nascence place.
Cara Black's birth place is Harare.
Adelaide is Mark Woodforde's nascence place.
Stephen Harper's birth place is Toronto.
Edinburgh is Arthur Conan Doyle's nascence place.
John, King of England's birth place is Oxford.
Cincinnati is William Howard Taft's nascence place.
Anna Nicole Smith is Heath Ledger's better half.
Bernard Archard is Stephen Dunham's better half.
Charlotte Ross is Kate Winslet's better half.
Poppy Montgomery's spouse is Adrianne Curry.
Liv Tyler is Nicholas Tse's better half.
Usher (entertainer) is Luther Davis' better half.
Edward Scissorhands stars Tim Burns.
Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me stars John Junkin.
Last Action Hero stars Maggie d'Abo.
Frank Lloyd Wright's birth place is Richland Center, Wisconsin.
Kamal Haasan's birth place is Paramakudi.
Los Angeles is Beck's nascence place.
Muhammad Ali's birth place is Louisville, Kentucky.
Manchester is David Lloyd George's nascence place.
Kofi Annan's birth place is Kumasi.
Boston is Donna Summer's birth place.
Michael Chang's birth place is Hoboken, New Jersey.
Victoria, British Columbia is Nelly Furtado's nascence place.
Emmylou Harris' birth place is Birmingham, Alabama.
Philadelphia is Noam Chomsky's nascence place.
Strategy First's foundation place is Glendale, California.
Softpress' foundation place is Espoo.
Acronis' foundation place is Potsdam.
Maria das Neves' office is Israel.
Anton Rop's office is United Kingdom.
Canada is Mari Alkatiri's role.
Jomo Kenyatta's office is Yugoslavia.
Japan is Barend Biesheuvel's role.
Alec Douglas-Home's office is Israel.
Krstarica's foundation place is Belgrade.
California is Serena Software's innovation place.
Josip Broz Tito's office is Yugoslavia.
Japan is Toshiki Kaifu's role.
Menachem Begin's office is Israel.
Canada is Pierre Trudeau's role.
Tony Parker's spouse is Anna Faris.
Craig Conway (actor)'s spouse is Michelle Williams (actress).
Emmy Rossum is Jack White (musician)'s spouse.
Canada is Wilfrid Laurier's role.
Şebnem Dönmez's spouse is Jessica Paré.
Krista Allen is Tony Parker's better half.
Tameka Foster's spouse is Hugh Grant.
Manisha Koirala is Kevin Federline's better half.
Ronald Cheng's spouse is Carice van Houten.
Saddam Hussein's office is Iraq.
Jacques Chirac's office is France.
East Timor is José Ramos-Horta's role.
Anwar Sadat's office is Egypt.
Egypt is Gamal Abdel Nasser's role.
Harold Wilson's office is United Kingdom.
Canada is Vladimír Špidla's role.
Louis Botha's office is Iraq.
Canada is Martti Miettunen's role.
Vazgen Sargsyan's office is France.
East Timor is Kalevi Sorsa's role.
Rolandas Paksas' office is Egypt.
Egypt is Jacques Chirac's role.
Morihiro Hosokawa's office is United Kingdom.
Netherlands is Abdullah Ahmad Badawi's role.
France is Jelle Zijlstra's role.
James Yap is Kris Aquino's better half.
Kwame Nkrumah's office is Dominion of Newfoundland.
Croatia is Anwar Sadat's role.
Elisabeth Domitien's office is Malaysia.
Portugal is Ruud Lubbers' role.
Paul-Henri Spaak's office is Japan.
Portugal is Robert Borden's role.
Eva Green's spouse is Marton Csokas.
Will Arnett's spouse is Amy Poehler.
Persia White is Saul Williams' better half.
Shogo's spouse is Eriko Imai.
Pamela Anderson's spouse is Kid Rock.
Alexondra Lee is Stephen Dunham's better half.
Lina Romay's spouse is Jesús Franco.
Kill Bill stars Daryl Hannah.
Gaston Eyskens' office is France.
Pakistan is Jean-Pierre Raffarin's role.
Nuri as-Said's office is Spain.
Japan is Mark Eyskens' role.
Saddam Hussein's office is Japan.
Laos is Eisaku Satō's role.
Golda Meir's office is Finland.
Iraq is Anders Fogh Rasmussen's role.
William Golding's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
André Gide's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Czesław Miłosz's award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Shmuel Yosef Agnon's award.
Albert Camus' award is Nobel Prize in Literature.
Nobel Prize in Literature is Gerhart Hauptmann's honour.
Aimo Cajander's office is Tuvalu.
Stjepan Mesić's office is Denmark.
Belgium is Laurent Fabius' office.
Kalevi Sorsa's office is France.
Armenia is Mark Eyskens' role.
H. H. Asquith's office is Belgium.
Malaysia is Robert Borden's role.
Anders Fogh Rasmussen's office is Malaysia.
Japan is Kalevi Sorsa's role.
Jean-Pierre Raffarin's office is South Africa.
Fiji is Eisaku Satō's role.
Harold Wilson's office is Tunisia.
South Africa is Vladimír Špidla's role.
Louis Botha's office is Cape Verde.
Guyana is Barend Biesheuvel's role.
François Tombalbaye's office is Nepal.
Algeria is Laurent Fabius' office.
Margaret Thatcher's office is Bhutan.
Djibouti is Wim Kok's role.
Shaun Livingston's team is Charlotte Bobcats.
Cleveland Cavaliers is Shaun Livingston's squad.
Steve Blake's team is Portland Trail Blazers.
Portland Trail Blazers is Steve Blake's squad.
Metta World Peace's team is Indiana Pacers.
Houston Rockets is Metta World Peace's squad.
Harlan Ellison is When Worlds Collide's generator.
The Passion of New Eve's author is Cordwainer Smith.
The Night of the Triffids' author is Larry Niven.
Pamela Anderson's spouse is Sam Mendes.
Tom Cruise is Kelis' better half.
Jason Reitman is Craig Conway (actor)'s spouse.
Tamara Brooks' spouse is Thom Mathews.
Charlie Sheen's spouse is Gerard McCarthy.
Kristine Hermosa is Kevin Federline's better half.
Sara Maldonado's spouse is Demi Moore.
Robert Rodriguez's spouse is Elizabeth Hurley.
Jason Richardson's team is Orlando Magic.
New York Knicks is Raymond Felton's squad.
Mylène Jampanoï's spouse is Isaac Hayes.
2012 (film) stars Lucas Grabeel.
A Hard Day's Night (film) stars Vanessa Hudgens
Mad Max stars Marlon Brando.
2012 (film) stars Alyson Stoner
The Right Stuff (film) stars Demi Lovato.
Kill Bill stars Joe Jonas.
Edward Scissorhands stars Maria Canals Barrera.
Raymond Felton's team is Portland Trail Blazers.
Chicago Bulls is Tyson Chandler's squad.
Tyson Chandler's team is Charlotte Bobcats.
Golden State Warriors is Andris Biedriņš's squad.
Mike Miller (basketball player)'s team is Minnesota Timberwolves.
Derek Fisher's team is Memphis Grizzlies.
Cleveland Cavaliers is Carmelo Anthony's squad.
Kwame Brown's team is Utah Jazz.
Orlando Magic is Pau Gasol's squad.
Dwight Howard's team is Atlanta Hawks.
Boston Celtics is Shaun Livingston's squad.
Derek Fisher's team is Boston Celtics.
Chicago Bulls is Charlie Villanueva's squad.
Shane Battier's team is Charlotte Bobcats.
Detroit Pistons is Ian Mahinmi's squad.
Andris Biedriņš's team is New York Knicks.
Los Angeles Clippers is Mike Miller (basketball player)'s team.
Carlos Boozer's team is Dallas Mavericks.
Utah Jazz is Luis Scola's squad.
John Lucas III's team is Boston Celtics.
San Antonio Spurs is Monta Ellis' squad.
Dwight Howard's team is Miami Heat.
Detroit Pistons is Steve Blake's squad.
J. R. Smith's team is Houston Rockets.
Los Angeles Lakers is Chris Kaman's squad.
Chris Kaman's team is Detroit Pistons.
Jason Terry's team is New York Knicks.
New Orleans Hornets is Derek Fisher's squad.
Mike Miller (basketball player)'s team is Boston Celtics.
Bruce Sterling is The Caves of Steel's generator.
Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?'s author is Kurt Vonnegut.
John Wyndham is The Boat of a Million Years' generator.
Neuromancer's author is Edwin Abbott Abbott.
Tanith Lee is Non-Stop (novel)'s author.
Options (novel)'s author is Tony Rothman.
Philip Wylie is Immodest Proposals' generator.
Synthesis & Other Virtual Realities' author is Stanisław Lem.
Jerry Pournelle is Beyond Apollo's generator.
The Throne of Saturn (short story collection)'s author is Karel Čapek.
Derek Fisher's team is Golden State Warriors.
Los Angeles Lakers is Derek Fisher's squad.
Derek Fisher's team is Dallas Mavericks.
Philadelphia 76ers is Kyle Korver's squad.
Marc Anthony's spouse is Bethany Joy Lenz.
Grant Show is Stephen Dunham's better half.
Sebastian Koch's spouse is Mario Lopez.
Abbie Cornish is Ronald Cheng's better half.
Haylie Duff is Tameka Foster's better half.
Superbad (film) stars Nick Jonas.
Predator (film) stars Amanda Peet.
Love Actually stars Danny Glover.
The Aristocats stars Oliver Platt.
The Aristocats stars Woody Harrelson
Camp Rock stars Hugh Keays-Byrne.
Edward Scissorhands stars Mel Gibson.
Kyle Korver's team is Chicago Bulls.
Mike Dunleavy, Jr.'s team is Indiana Pacers.
Jason Terry's team is Boston Celtics.
Charlotte Bobcats is Jason Richardson's squad.
Wizard (novel)'s author is S. Fowler Wright.
Whit's author is Thomas M. Disch.
The Breath of Suspension's author is Alan E. Nourse.
Gardner Dozois is Polyphemus (book)'s author.
The Urth of the New Sun's author is Cordwainer Smith.
The Collected Short Fiction of C. J. Cherryh's author is John Thomas Sladek.
Again, Dangerous Visions' author is Kurt Vonnegut.
Hermann Hesse is We (novel)'s author.
Good Omens' author is Alfred Bester.
Westwood Studios is Electronic Arts' subordinate.
Yahoo!'s subsidiary is Zimbra.
IBM's subsidiary is IBM Internet Security Systems.
Corixa is GlaxoSmithKline's subordinate.
Adobe Systems' subsidiary is Macromedia.
EBay's subsidiary is PayPal.
John Thomas Sladek is The Forever War's generator.
Belleville, Ontario is Avril Lavigne's nascence place.
Lou Reed's birth place is Brooklyn.
Lincoln, Nebraska is Dick Cheney's nascence place.
Robert De Niro's birth place is New York City.
Savannah, Georgia is Johnny Mercer's nascence place.
Mardy Fish's birth place is Edina, Minnesota.
Wilfrid Laurier's office is Finland.
Finland is George Papandreou's role.
Josip Broz Tito's office is Iraq.
Iraq is Martti Miettunen's role.
Jean Chrétien's office is Central African Republic.
France is John Abbott's role.
Jacques Chirac's office is Russia.
Maria das Neves' office is Malaysia.
Unquillo is David Nalbandian's nascence place.
William McKinley's birth place is Niles, Ohio.
Cambridge is Olivia Newton-John's nascence place.
A Door into Ocean's author is Cordwainer Smith.
When HARLIE Was One's author is Virginia DeMarce.
The Truce at Bakura's author is Dan Simmons.
The World Is Round's author is Gardner Dozois.
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court's author is Greg Bear.
Edwin Balmer is The Garden of Rama's generator.
Orbital Resonance (novel)'s author is Mordecai Roshwald.
Ian Stewart (mathematician) is 334 (novel)'s author.
The War Machine's author is Fritz Leiber.
Castle (novel)'s author is Yevgeny Zamyatin.
Riddley Walker's author is Michael F. Flynn.
Garth Nix is Jack Faust (novel)'s author.
The Demolished Man's author is E. E. Smith.
The Last Book in the Universe's author is A. E. van Vogt.
Fallen Angels (science fiction novel)'s author is Gentry Lee.
Janet Asimov is The Neutronium Alchemist's generator.
A Calculus of Angels' author is David Gerrold.
Eric Flint is A Time of Changes' generator.
Where Late the Sweet Birds Sang's author is Cordwainer Smith.
Doris Lessing is Carrie (novel)'s author.
Wheelers (novel)'s author is Stanisław Lem.
The Poison Belt's author is John Brunner (novelist).
Vril's author is Peter F. Hamilton.
Nicky Wu is Saul Williams' better half.
Charlie Sheen's spouse is Michael C. Hall.
Ryan Phillippe's spouse is Adrien Brody.
2012 (film) stars Paul McCartney
Camp Rock stars The Beatles.
Love Actually stars Wilfrid Brambell.
The Right Stuff (film) stars Mike Myers (actor).
Last Action Hero stars Robert Wagner
The Aristocats stars Will Ferrell.
Love Actually stars Deepika Padukone.
Mad Max stars Shah Rukh Khan.
The Right Stuff (film) stars Yuvika Chaudhary
Mad Max stars Eva Gabor.
Ghostbusters II stars Hermione Gingold.
Om Shanti Om stars Phil Harris.
Camp Rock stars Sterling Holloway.
Camp Rock stars Bill Murray.
Ed Wood (film) stars Ernie Hudson.
Godzilla (1998 film) stars Rick Moranis.
Om Shanti Om stars Anthony Quinn.
2012 (film) stars Art Carney.
A Hard Day's Night (film) stars Bridgette Wilson
The Bronx is Woody Allen's nascence place.
Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington's birth place is Dublin.
Montreal is Pierre Trudeau's nascence place.
Nenad Zimonjić's birth place is Belgrade.
Belgrade is Jelena Janković's nascence place.
Cole Porter's birth place is Peru, Indiana.
Chempu is Mammootty's nascence place.
H. P. Lovecraft's birth place is Providence, Rhode Island.
New York City is Billy Joel's nascence place.
George Bernard Shaw's birth place is Dublin.
Minsk is Victoria Azarenka's nascence place.
Björk's birth place is Reykjavík.
The Right Stuff (film) stars F. Murray Abraham.
A Hard Day's Night (film) stars Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Camp Rock stars Carl Weathers.
Mad Max stars Kevin Peter Hall.
Stars Jonah Hill has been clerked Clerks.
Godzilla (1998 film) stars Seth Rogen.
Love Actually stars Jason Mewes.
Love Actually stars Kevin Smith.
Pacific Hydro is ADC Telecommunications' subordinate.
Verisign's subsidiary is Macromedia.
Orbital Sciences Corporation's subsidiary is PayPal.
Television South is Oracle Corporation's subordinate.
Norfolk Southern Railway's subsidiary is Fox Kids.
VLSI Technology is Hewlett-Packard's subordinate.
Netscape's subsidiary is BlueLithium.
MediaTek's subsidiary is EGroups.
EBay's subsidiary is Sling Media.
Snapfish is Ascend Communications' subordinate.
IBM's subsidiary is Plumtree Software.
TiVo, Inc.'s subsidiary is Terayon.
