The Z Channel was one of the first pay television stations in the United States. Launched in 1974 from Los Angeles, California, this station was known for its devotion to the art of cinema due to the eclectic choice of films by the programming chief, Jerry Harvey. It also popularized the use of letterboxing on television, as well as showing 'director's cut' versions of films (which is a term popularized after Z Channel's showing of "Heaven's Gate"). Z Channel's devotion to cinema and choice of rare and important films had an important influence on such directors as Robert Altman, Quentin Tarantino, and Jim Jarmusch.
Z Channel was launched in 1974 by Theta Cable (a division of TelePrompTer Corporation and Hughes Aircraft Co.) which was acquired by Group W (Westinghouse) in 1981. Operations were located in Santa Monica, California. Jerry Harvey was hired as program director in 1980. As program director Harvey was given permission to program the network the way he saw fit. As such, the network featured a wide variety of films not typically shown on other pay television services at the time. These included many B movies, silent films, foreign films, and original unedited versions of films. Harvey also frequently broadcast many films by his favorite director John Ford.
On Christmas Eve 1982, Harvey made the decided to show the original (previously unreleased) version of Heaven's Gate, a movie that had been considered a disaster by all accounts. His decision was a success and the movie became the most watched feature ever shown on Z Channel. Other networks soon followed and aired Heaven's Gate.
By the mid-1980s Z Channel had 90,000 subscribers. In 1987, Group W sold Z Channel to Seattle-based Rock Associates for $5 million. Both increased competition and lack of interest by Group W leading up to the sale led to a decrease in subscribers. In January 1988, Rock Associates merged with American Spectacor. 
In April 1988, there were two major (though unrelated) changes; the departure of Jerry Harvey due to his suicide and the addition of sports to the network. Deals were made to bring games from the Angels, Clippers and Dodgers to the network. This increased the numbers of subscribers to 110,000. The sports deals were funded by selling advertising during the games. However, a lawsuit ensued with a court ruling that contracts with the movie studios stipulated that the service be commercial-free. 
Out of options the channel was sold to Cablevision and NBC on March 16, 1989, who were partners in the joint-venture SportsChannel. On June 29, 1989 Z Channel faded to black and was replaced by SportsChannel Los Angeles. The last film shown on Z Channel was the John Ford film My Darling Clementine.
The channel was the subject of the 2004 documentary "", which was directed by Alexandra Cassavetes, daughter of John Cassavetes.
In the late 1980s, Z Channel broadcast a number of the World Wrestling Federation's live events from the Los Angeles Sports Arena, but nowhere near as many as Madison Square Garden (MSG Network), Boston Garden (New England Sports Network) or the Philadelphia Spectrum (PRISM).
