Z Nation is an American action/horror/comedy-drama/post-apocalyptic television series that airs on Syfy, created by Karl Schaefer and Craig Engler, and produced by The Asylum. The first season of 13 episodes premiered on September 12, 2014. "Z Nation" is filmed in the Spokane, Washington, area.
On June 16, 2016, Syfy announced that "Z Nation" third season would be preceded by a TV movie, set prior to the climax of season 2 and introducing central characters for the third season. However, the movie was instead presented as the first two episodes of the season, the two-part "No Mercy".
On November 29, 2016, Syfy renewed the series for a 13-episode fourth season, which premiered on September 29, 2017.
"Z Nation" begins three years into a virus-caused zombie apocalypse, which has already killed most humans. In the days just before society fell apart, Murphy was one of three inmates at Portsmouth Naval Prison in Kittery, Maine, who were unwilling participants in a government-approved experiment. Each inmate was given a different test vaccine. Murphy was the only one to survive the vaccine injection. He is the only known survivor of a zombie bite who did not himself turn into a zombie, and his blood contains antibodies that are mankind's last and best hope for a vaccine.
A group must transport Murphy from New York to the world's last known functioning Centers for Disease Control research lab in California. However, Murphy harbors a dark secret that threatens them all.
"Z Nation" is produced by Go2 Digital Media for The Asylum. On June 29, 2014, it was announced that the filming of 13 episodes for the first season of the series was underway. On October 12, 2014, Syfy announced that it had ordered a second season of "Z Nation". Schaefer and Engler have described "Z Nation" as an attempt to "put the fun back into zombies", criticizing shows like "The Walking Dead" for being too serious. "Z Nation"s first season had a budget of less than $700,000 per episode.
The first season of "Z Nation" received mixed reviews from professional television critics. Its aggregate score on Metacritic is 48/100 based on reviews from 11 critics. "Rotten Tomatoes" gave the show a rating of 53%, based on reviews from 17 critics, with the site's consensus stating "although it's hampered by an overcrowded narrative, "Z Nation" manages to muster up some fun scares without taking itself too seriously."
Chris Carabott of "IGN" noted that the show "continues to set itself apart in campy and inventive ways." Brian Moylan of "The Guardian" called "Z Nation" scary "in the same vague way as that talking green blob is in the Mucinex commercials" and concluded that viewers would hate all the characters, but that "Citizen Z (DJ Qualls) is especially horrible." Merrill Barr of Forbes magazine said the show had a high entertainment value.
In its first season, "Z Nation" averaged 1.42 million viewers per episode, including a .48 rating in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic.
"Z Nation" is distributed internationally by Dynamic Television. The series premiered on Syfy in Australia on April 1, 2015, and was watched by 26,000 viewers. The United Kingdom premiere aired on Freeview channel Pick on July 21, 2015.
Season 1 was released on DVD on February 10, 2015, by Syfy in association with Universal Home Entertainment. It was also issued on iTunes, with episodes running approximately 41–43 minutes each.
The series is available on Netflix worldwide.
The film "", released in July 2015, featured a cameo appearance by Smith, playing "Sgt. Roberta Warren".
The film "", featured an appearance by Doc.
Season 1 Episode 8 "Zunami" features a "super tornado" type storm that causes zombies to become flying debris in the same manner as the "Sharknado" movies. When observing this, the "Garnett" character asks "Is that what I think it is?" to which the "Warren" character exclaims "They ain't sharks!". 
