Z-Rock was a nationally syndicated radio network based out of Dallas, Texas, USA, in the mid-1980s through the mid-1990s that played heavy metal and hard rock music. The format was one of ABC Radio Network's (now Cumulus Media Networks') 24-hour satellite formats (formerly Satellite Music Network). Z-Rock debuted on Labor Day 1986 and is credited with being the first nationally focused radio station/network. In March 1990, Z Rock was nominated for Billboard Awards, the only full-time hard rock/metal programming ever nominated in the history of "Billboard" magazine. After several changes in personnel and programming direction, the network was discontinued on December 31, 1996. 
During its early days the station drew attention for playing unedited, explicit versions of songs. The station also gained notoriety in the DFW area for their "mascot" vehicle, "the Z Rock hearse", which was displayed at various events and locations around the DFW Metroplex. The vehicle ultimately was awarded to a lucky winner in a promotional givaway. Dennis C. Weaver of Dallas drew the "lucky key" in a drawing held at Sound Climax, a Dallas car audio store which had outfitted the vehicle with stereo gear to showcase their products.
From 1989-1991 the network also produced "Z-Rock Magazine", available free in network affiliate cities.
The opening bumper for commercial breaks was an 8-note guitar riff from the first part of the song "House of 1,000 Pleasures" by Japanese band Ezo.
Slogans used for Z-Rock's imaging and promotions included "If it's too loud, you're too old!", "Flip us on and flip them off", "We don't brake for wimps" and "If you're not crankin' it, you must be yankin' it!" and "Lock it in, and rip your knob off". It also used to mock classic rock programming, then say "Who cares?! Z-Rock RULES!"
Marketed nationally for local broadcast with local commercials inserted, Z-Rock's market penetration across the country varied considerably. While the local broadcasts were usually FM, in some areas the station was carried by small AM outlets. Some publicity was provided for several years by the comic strip "Funky Winkerbean", in which one of the main characters often wore a Z-Rock T-shirt.
When the Z-Rock radio network was shut down by the end of 1996, affiliates were free to adopt the Z-Rock name and/or imaging. Some of them are still using it today:
Cumulus Media, the successor to ABC's radio operations, owns the Z Rock trademark today, using it as a moniker for the above-mentioned WXZZ in order to keep the trademark active.
Tracy Barnes and Scorchin' Scotty went on to found HardRadio.
Former Z-Rock DJ's, Madd Maxx Hammer and Jason Lee Tipton, are currently on KDKT.US, a digital hard rock radio station.
A fully moderated, 24-hour modern rock radio stream is still being produced for the Armed Forces Network (AFN) and is available on the digital AFN satellite lineup (with AFN Uninterruptable Voice the only unencrypted offering on the European AFN Hot Bird transponder).
The weekly, four-hour modern rock chart program Z-Rock 50 was part of AFN The Eagle (Sundays 5pm - 9pm CET) and could be heard in many locations throughout Europe and the Middle East. It was taken off the air in Spring 2009. The program is also available to other broadcasters worldwide from ABC Radio Networks International (now Citadel Media Networks).
Citadel Media in 2010 started up a new satellite Active Rock service called "The Nerve." Unlike traditional rock stations and networks, The Nerve personalities are rock music core listeners who happen to be on the radio, instead of the DJs themselves.
The Bulgarian radio station Z-Rock uses the name of the network.
